### ArcGIS Maps ###

Having not made any GIS projects available to the public, I decided to make two projects related to a GIS-heavy job that I am applying for. 

These are from ArcGIS's challenges regarding geospatial analysis and deep learning. As I'm not as experienced with ArcGIS specifically, I dove into a number of challenges, but found these two to be my favorite.

PROJECTS ON GOOGLE DRIVE:
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BlTYr-JZMDRuoSfGqDtvQHXjUmoDc0pU?usp=sharing

## Solar Roofs ##
The first, solar roofs, is made to refine geospatial data to find which rooftops in a Washington DC neighborhood are suitable for solar panels, and how mkuch could suitable roofs produce? We were given an outline of lot blueprints in the .tif file, as well as a DSM raster layer.

The process of narrowing down roofs was done mostly with geospatial tools. First, we create a hillshade from the DSM raster layer, before using ArcGIS's Area Solar Radiation tool, which predicts solar radiation based on raster surface values. By using the building outline for the mask, , we see solar radiation only on the lots, which from our view show rooftops. After using another tool to detect slope, we can make SQL queries to find south-facing rooftops that are above a certain radiation value, but under a slope too steep for building panels.

After this, we narrow down houses by their total area and total suitable area for building panels via more SQL queries. We now have our suitable rooftops, but how much electricity can be generated by these lots? To do this we take a 15 percent efficiency and 86 percent performance ratio (thanks EPA and ArcGIS), and apply those ratios to the usable solar radiation areas of each rooftop. From there we get a new row in our database showing total possible electrical production by megawatt hour. Hooray!

## Deep Learning with Coconuts ##
This project was fun and I can see a lot of uses for it. The objective was to classify coconut palm trees on a raster layer of a fraction of the island of Tongatapu, which is the capital of Tonga. We use ArcGIS's builtin deep learning toolset to train and classify the trees.

First we create a class and assign it to circles we manually draw around 5 sets of around 50-150 palms. We then make the image set into an emd in the geodatabase. Using the train deep learning tool, we can use the training dataset to classify other matching images in the raster layer!

The image classifier is obviously not perfect. There's a fair few false positives and negative, which can probably be fixxed by changing the minimum confidence, but that just gives more false negatives with the correction. Classifying more training images is likely a better step, but I would like to give this another run using the ArcGIS API in python to better gauge the restrictions of the built-in tools. However, we could also use AWS's FindMAtches ML tool to intelligently remove duplicates on matching result fields.
